README.md, before:

![Redux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redux-593D88?style=for-the-badge&logo=redux&logoColor=white)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-61DAFB?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=black)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)

# Security Training Platform

This repository contains a **Security Awareness Training Platform** designed to educate users on essential cybersecurity practices. The application walks users through various tasks, including:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5c6b68f5-d84e-49af-b1bc-82352e0d83f6

- Generating strong passwords.
- Identifying phishing attempts.
- Learning about SSL encryption.

The platform includes interactive challenges and assessments to evaluate the user's understanding of security concepts.

## Features

- **User Authentication:** Secure login and registration system.
- **Interactive Challenges:** Tasks to strengthen cybersecurity awareness.
- **Simulations:** Tests for identifying phishing scams and weak passwords.
- **Dynamic Feedback:** Instant feedback and scoring.
- **Responsive UI:** Improved user experience with engaging and informative layouts.

---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Before setting up the project, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js** (v16 or later)
- **MongoDB** (Running locally or connected via a cloud service)

### Setup

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone  https://github.com/egecan12/security
   cd security-platform
   ```

2.Install backend dependencies:

cd backend
npm install

3.Install frontend dependencies:

cd ../client
npm install

4.Create an .env file in the backend folder with the following:
PORT=5000
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
MONGO_URI=mongodb_connection_string

5.Run the backend server:

cd backend
npm run dev

6.Run the frontend server:

cd ../frontend
npm start

---

### Part 2: Project Structure

```markdown
---

## Project Structure

### Backend
Located in the `backend` folder, it handles:
- **Authentication and Authorization**
- **User Management**
- **APIs for Challenge Scoring**

Key files:
- `server.ts`: Main entry point for the server.
- `routes/auth.ts`: Routes for login and registration.
- `models/User.ts`: Mongoose schema for user data.

### Frontend
Located in the `frontend` folder, it manages:
- **Interactive UI**
- **Dynamic Feedback**
- **User Progress Tracking**

Key components:
- `Login.tsx`: Login functionality.
- `Register.tsx`: Registration form.
- `Dashboard.tsx`: Main user dashboard.
- `PhishingTest.tsx`: Challenge for identifying phishing scams.
- `MakePassword.tsx`: Challenge for creating strong passwords.
- `SSLTest.tsx`: SSL encryption awareness test.

---

### Features

1. **Authentication**:

   - **Registration:** Secure registration with input validation and password hashing.
   - **Login:** Token-based authentication using JWT.
   - **Logout:** Clears session and token data.

2. **Challenges**:

   - Password Strength Test
   - Phishing Simulation
   - SSL Awareness Quiz

3. **Scoring System**:
   - Challenges are scored dynamically.
   - The user's progress is tracked in the `progressSlice` state.
```

---

## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions to improve this platform! Here's how you can help:

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix:

    ```bash
    git checkout -b feature-name
    ```

    Acknowledgements

        Have I Been Pwned: For password breach validation.
        React Icons: For UI enhancements.
        Node.js and MongoDB: Backbone technologies for the project.
        Egecan Kahyaoğlu: Developer and designer of this platform.

Contact

For questions or feedback, please email [kahyaogluegecan@gmail.com].

Commit message:

Update README.md with installation instructions, add test section, and remove developer credit from footer in login and sslTest pages

README.md, after:

![Redux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Redux-593D88?style=for-the-badge&logo=redux&logoColor=white)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?style=for-the-badge&logo=typescript&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-61DAFB?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=black)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)

# Security Training Platform

This repository contains a **Security Awareness Training Platform** designed to educate users on essential cybersecurity practices. The application walks users through various tasks, including:

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5c6b68f5-d84e-49af-b1bc-82352e0d83f6

- Generating strong passwords.
- Identifying phishing attempts.
- Learning about SSL encryption.

The platform includes interactive challenges and assessments to evaluate the user's understanding of security concepts.

## Features

- **User Authentication:** Secure login and registration system.
- **Interactive Challenges:** Tasks to strengthen cybersecurity awareness.
- **Simulations:** Tests for identifying phishing scams and weak passwords.
- **Dynamic Feedback:** Instant feedback and scoring.
- **Responsive UI:** Improved user experience with engaging and informative layouts.

---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

Before setting up the project, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js** (v16 is Required. Higher versions are not supported)
- **MongoDB** (Running locally or connected via a cloud service)

### Setup

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone  git@github.com:egecan12/security-platform.git
   cd security-platform
   ```

2.Install backend dependencies:

cd backend
npm install

3.Install frontend dependencies:

cd ../client
npm install

4.Create an .env file in the backend folder with the following:
PORT=5000
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
MONGO_URI=mongodb_connection_string

5.Run the backend server:

cd backend

You must build backend before you run the code.

npm run build
npm run dev

6.Run the frontend server:

cd ../frontend
npm start

---

### Part 2: Project Structure

```markdown
---

## Tests

We used JestJS Framework to create tests.

you should run this command

npm run test

## Project Structure

### Backend
Located in the `backend` folder, it handles:
- **Authentication and Authorization**
- **User Management**
- **APIs for Challenge Scoring**

Key files:
- `server.ts`: Main entry point for the server.
- `routes/auth.ts`: Routes for login and registration.
- `models/User.ts`: Mongoose schema for user data.

### Frontend
Located in the `frontend` folder, it manages:
- **Interactive UI**
- **Dynamic Feedback**
- **User Progress Tracking**

Key components:
- `Login.tsx`: Login functionality.
- `Register.tsx`: Registration form.
- `Dashboard.tsx`: Main user dashboard.
- `PhishingTest.tsx`: Challenge for identifying phishing scams.
- `MakePassword.tsx`: Challenge for creating strong passwords.
- `SSLTest.tsx`: SSL encryption awareness test.

---

### Features

1. **Authentication**:

   - **Registration:** Secure registration with input validation and password hashing.
   - **Login:** Token-based authentication using JWT.
   - **Logout:** Clears session and token data.

2. **Challenges**:

   - Password Strength Test
   - Phishing Simulation
   - SSL Awareness Quiz

3. **Scoring System**:
   - Challenges are scored dynamically.
   - The user's progress is tracked in the `progressSlice` state.
```

---

## Tests,

## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions to improve this platform! Here's how you can help:

1.  Fork the repository.
2.  Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix:

    ```bash
    git checkout -b feature-name
    ```

    Acknowledgements

        Have I Been Pwned: For password breach validation.
        React Icons: For UI enhancements.
        Node.js and MongoDB: Backbone technologies for the project.

Contact
